Module 1

Demo 1
Introduction to VPCs : default network with subnets, routes, and firewall rules.

Navigate to Navigation menu> VPC network > VPC networks.

View the routes

In the left pane, click on Routes.
Notice that there is a route for each subnet and one for the Default internet gateway (0.0.0.0./0).

View the firewall rules

In the left pane, click on Firewall rules.

Delete the default network

In the left pane, click on Firewall rules.

Select all firewall rules and click DELETE.

In the left pane, click on VPC networks.

Click on the default network.

Click Delete VPC network at the top of the dialog, 
then click Delete to confirm the deletion of the default network.

Wait for the network to be deleted before moving on.

In the left pane, click on Routes.

There are no routes.

Try to create a VM instance

Navigate to Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM instances, 
and then click Create to create a VM instance.

Leave all the values at their default and click Create.

Notice the error.

Under the Firewall section, Click Management, disks, networking, SSH keys, 
and then click Networking.


Notice the No local network available error under Network interface.

Click Cancel.

Demo 2
Creating a new auto mode VPC network

Create an auto mode VPC network with Firewall rules

Navigate to Navigation menu > VPC network > VPC networks, 
and then click Create VPC network.

Set the Name to spikey-globalvpc.

For Subnet creation mode, click Automatic.

For Firewall rules, check all available rules.

Click Create


Create a VM instance in us-central1

Navigate to Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM instances, and then click Create.

Set the following values, leaving all others at their defaults:

Property	Value 
Name	spikey-server-us
Region	us-central1
Zone	 us-central1-c
Machine type	micro (1 shared vCPU)

Click Create, then wait for the instance to be created.



Create a VM instance in europe-west1

Click Create instance.

Set the following values, leaving all others at their defaults:

Property	Value
Name	spikey-server-eu
Region	europe-west1
Zone	europe-west1-c
Machine type	micro (1 shared vCPU)

Click Create, then wait for the instance to be created.


Verify connectivity for the VM instances
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu> Compute Engine > VM instances.
For  spikey-server-us, click SSH to launch a terminal and connect. 
To test connectivity to spikey-server-eu's internal IP, run the following command using spikey-server-eu's internal IP:
ping -c 3 <Enter spikey-server-eu's internal IP here>
Repeat the same test, this time using spikey-server-eu's name:
ping -c 3 spikey-server-eu



To test connectivity to spikey-server-eu's external IP, run the following command using spikey-server-eu's external IP:
ping -c 3 <Enter spikey-server-eu's external IP here>

Repeat for spikey-server-us


Demo 3
Creating a new VPC network with custom subnets

Create the spikey-management-nw network using the GCP Console.
Navigate to Navigation menu () > VPC network > VPC networks.
Notice the default and spikey-globalvpc networks with their subnets.
Click Create VPC Network.
Set the Name to spikey-management-nw.
For Subnet creation mode, click Custom.
Set the following values, leave all other values at their defaults:
Property
Value (type value or select option as specified)
Name
spikey-management-subnet-us
Region
us-central1
IP address range
10.130.0.0/20
Click Done.
Click command line.
Click Close.
Click Create.
Create the spikey-dev-nw network

Run the following command, to create the spikey-dev-nw network:
gcloud compute networks create spikey-dev-nw --subnet-mode=custom


Run the following command, to create the spikey-dev-subnet-us subnet:
gcloud compute networks subnets create spikey-dev-subnet-us \
--network=spikey-dev-nw \
--region=us-central1 \
--range=172.16.0.0/24


Run the following command, to create the spikey-dev-subnet-eu subnet:
gcloud compute networks subnets create spikey-dev-subnet-eu \
 --network=spikey-dev-nw \
--region=europe-west1 \
--range=172.20.0.0/20


Run the following command, to list the available VPC networks:
gcloud compute networks list



Run the following command, to list the available VPC subnets (sorted by VPC network):
gcloud compute networks subnets list --sort-by=NETWORK


In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > VPC network > VPC networks.
You see that the same networks and subnets are listed in the Console.
  
Module 2

Demo 1
Using firewall rules
Create the firewall rules for spikey-management-nw
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > VPC network > Firewall rules.
Click + Create Firewall Rule.
Set the following values, leave all other values at their defaults:
Property
Value (type value or select option as specified)
Name
spikey-management-nw-allow-icmp-ssh-rdp
Network
spikey-management-nw
Targets
All instances in the network
Source filter
IP Ranges
Source IP ranges
0.0.0.0/0
Protocols and ports
Specified protocols and ports, icmp; 

Click command line.
Click Close.
Click Create.
Repeat for tcp:22; spikey-management-nw-allow-ssh and tcp:3389 spikey-management-nw-allow-rdp
In Cloud Shell, run the following command to create the spikey-dev-nw-allow-icmp-ssh-rdp firewall rule:
gcloud compute firewall-rules create spikey-dev-nw-allow-icmp-ssh-rdp  \
--direction=INGRESS \
--priority=1000 \
--network=spikey-dev-nw \
--action=ALLOW \
--rules=icmp,tcp:22,tcp:3389 \
--source-ranges=0.0.0.0/0


Run the following command, to list all the firewall rules (sorted by VPC network):
gcloud compute firewall-rules list --sort-by=NETWORK
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > VPC network > Firewall rules.

Demo 2 
Testing VM connectivity
Create two VM instances:
Create the  spikey-management-nw-vm-us instance using the GCP Console.
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > Compute Engine > VM instances.
Click Create instance.
Set the following values, leave all other values at their defaults:
Property
Value (type value or select option as specified)
Name
 spikey-management-nw-vm-us
Region
us-central1
Zone
us-central1-c
Machine type
1 vCPU
Click Management, disks, networking, SSH keys.
Click Networking.
For Network interfaces, click the pencil icon to edit.
Set the following values, leave all other values at their defaults:
Property
Value (type value or select option as specified)
Network
 spikey-management-nw
Subnetwork
 spikey-management-subnet-us
Click Done.
Click command line.
Click Close.
Click Create.
Create the  instance using the Cloud Shell command line.
gcloud compute instances create  spikey-dev-nw-vm-us \
--zone=us-central1-c \
--machine-type=n1-standard-1 \
--subnet=spikey-dev-subnet-us 



Run the following command, to list all the VM instances (sorted by zone):
gcloud compute instances list --sort-by=ZONE


In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > Compute Engine > VM instances.
Click on Columns, then select Network.
Ping the external IP addresses
 
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > Compute Engine > VM instances.
For  spikey-server-us, click SSH to launch a terminal and connect.
To test connectivity
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-server-eu's external IP here>
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-server-us's external IP here>
 
To test connectivity to  spikey-dev-nw-vm-us's
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-dev-nw-vm-us's external IP here>
Ping the internal IP addresses
In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu () > Compute Engine > VM instances.
Return to the SSH terminal for  spikey-server-us.
To test connectivity to  spikey-server-eu's internal IP, 
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-server-eu's internal IP here>
To test connectivity to  spikey-management-nw-vm-us's internal IP, 
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-management-nw-vm-us's internal IP here>


To test connectivity to  spikey-dev-nw-vm-us's internal IP
ping -c 3 <Enter  spikey-dev-nw-vm-us's internal IP here>



Demo 3
Deleting firewall  rules
Remove the allow-internal firewall rules


In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu> VPC network > Firewall rules.

Check the icmp rule for automode nw and then click Delete. Click Delete to confirm the deletion.

Wait for the firewall rule to be deleted.

ssh to the us-vm SSH terminal.

To test connectivity to eu-vm's internal IP, run the following command using eu-vm's internal IP:

ping -c 3 <Enter eu-vm's internal IP here>

Close the SSH terminal:

exit

In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu > VPC network > Firewall rules.

Check the allow-ssh rule for automode and then click Delete. Click Delete to confirm the deletion.

Wait for the firewall rule to be deleted.

In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM instances.

For us-vm, click SSH to launch a terminal and connect.


Demo 4
Adding network tags
Go to the VM instances page. 
Select an instance. spikey-dev-nw-vm-us
  	On the VM instance details page, click Edit.
In the Network tags section, specify one or more tags, separated by commas. - web-server
Click Save.

Create the tagged firewall rule

In the Console, navigate to Navigation menu > VPC network > Firewall rules.
Click Create Firewall Rule.

Set the following values, leave all other values at their defaults and click Create:

Property	Value (type value or select option as specified)
Name	spikey-dev-allow-http-web-server
Network	global
Targets	Specified target tags
Target tags	web-server
Source filter	IP Ranges
Source IP ranges	0.0.0.0/0
Protocols and ports	Specified protocols and ports, and then check tcp, type: 80; 

Click Create.
Install nginx and customize the welcome page
Install nginx on both VM instances and modify the welcome page to distinguish the servers.
Still in the VM instances dialog, for blue, click SSH to launch a terminal and connect.
Run the following command to install nginx:
sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y
Open the welcome page in the nano editor:
sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html


Replace the <h1>Welcome to nginx!</h1> line with <h1>Welcome to the spikey sales server!</h1>.
Press CTRL+o, ENTER, CTRL+x.
Verify the change:
cat /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html
Close the SSH terminal 
Test Connectivity
Ssh to management-vm-us
ping spikey-server-us external ip
Ssh to spikey-server-eu
Ping spikey-server-us
Go to the VM instances page.
Select an instance. spikey-server-us
On the VM instance details page, click Edit.
In the Network tags section, remove tags by clicking remove (X).
Click Save.
Ssh to management-vm-us
ping spikey-server-us external ip
Ssh to spikey-server-eu
Ping spikey-server-us





Demo 5
Switch a VPC network from auto to custom and Add a subnet
Go to the VPC networks page in the Google Cloud Platform Console.  spikey-globalvpc
In the Mode column, click Auto to open the menu.
Select Custom from the menu.
Click OK to confirm.

Add a subnet
Go to the VPC networks page in the Google Cloud Platform Console. 
Select the name of the network to bring up the details page.
Click Add subnet.
Specify the Name and Region of the new subnet. spikey-subnet-new
Specify the IP address range of the subnet. 10.128.131.0/24
Click Add.

Demo 6
Expand a subnet

Go to the VPC networks page in the Google Cloud Platform Console. 
Click on the network that contains the subnet you want to expand.
Click on the subnet you want to expand.
Click Edit.
Enter the new range in the IP address range field. 10.128.128.0/20.
Click Save.
Deleting a subnet
You can only delete manually created subnets. Automatically created subnets cannot be deleted individually; you must delete the entire VPC network.
Go to the VPC networks page in the Google Cloud Platform Console. 
Click on the name of the VPC network that contains the subnet.spikey-subnet-new
Click on the name of the subnet.
Click Delete subnet.
Click Delete to confirm.
Delete VMs in auto-network
Delete VPC

Module 3
Demo 1
Shared VPC
   In Project 1, spikey-networks
	Create VPC spikey-shared-vpc with 2 subnet us-east-subnet,us-west-subnet
	Naviagte to shared vpc -throws error no permission.
Navigate to iam, Switch to organization, give Compute Engine Shared VPC Admin role to owner account
Naviagte to shared vpc 
Set up shared vpc
Choose only 1 subnet and choose project 2 
	Add firewall rule for tcp 22 and icmp
	Add vm- spikey-us-hq-vm
	
Switch to project 2, spikeysales-africa
Create vm in shared vpc spikey-africa-hq-vm
Ssh and ping each other
